[MUSIC PLAYING]
ANNOUNCER (VOICEOVER):
And now world
renowned spirit medium
James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you everyone.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you very
much for joining us
for another version of
Spirit Talk, where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
I want to thank you very,
very much for joining us
and today's a very special day.
I woke up this morning
and a spirit came
to me as they do every day.
But I said to them
or I talked to them
and I said what
topic-- what should we
talk about today on the show.
And they said you need to
speak about spirit guides.
Because everybody has
a guide and people
want to know about their
guides and we want you to bring
information about guides.
So that's what we're
going to have today.
Is that good?
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
How many people
have been in contact
with the guides you know about?
Yes?
Very good.
Very, very good.
And just curiosity, what kind
of guide you think you have
or what have you been
aware of your guide?
What kind of guide?
Her name's Elizabeth.
We met gosh I guess
quite a few years ago
and she's part of my daily life.
We talk, I ask her for
help, she gives help.
JAMES: Fantastic.
-And so--
Fantastic and that
was during meditation
that you found out who she was?
Meditation absolutely
The number one way,
the number one way.
Very, very good very
good sweetheart.
Why thank you.
And somebody over
here also mentioned--
you raised your hand sir.
If you want to stand
up and let us--
and who's one of your guides?
I always feel my mother.
JAMES: You always
feel your mother.
Yes mother can be guide
very, very much so.
Very, very much so.
Anybody else they feel no?
- Just my mother.
Just your mom.
OK good, very good.
We'll see if she comes in
later, we'll see hopefully.
OK great.
And then some people over
here also raised their hands.
I wasn't sure and
this lovely lady
here in the front
row and we're going
to give you the microphone.
And who do you
believe your guide is
or you've been in contact with?
His name is Mark.
JAMES: His name is Mark.
It's spelled M-A-R-C
and I dreamed about him
and I asked to dream about him.
JAMES: You dreamed about
him, another way which
you can contact your guides.
A very, very good way.
Excellent.
And spirit loved ones also.
You can go through
the dream state
and actually communicate
with your loved
ones and your guides.
Very good, thank you very much.
And if you want to what
I do with people is
I often will talk
about really the two
ways of getting in contact with
your guides and your loved one.
Number one is
through meditation.
Meditation is the number one
way because you kind of open up
your mind and you really receive
and your ego isn't in the way
trying to control everything.
It doesn't block it, yes?
Oh and the other way
is the dream state.
So before you go
to sleep at night
you could send out a thought to
your loved ones, to your guides
and say in that little bit
before you go to sleep,
that twilight state, if you
will say I want to see my guides
please present yourself to me.
Please present yourself
to me in my mind.
And I guarantee you that
within-- I can't tell you
time-wise a week to a
mother or a few months--
you will have an
image, a very clear
direction of who
one of your guides
or several of your guides are.
So try it out, it will work.
It works for you so try it out.
You know people
think that guides
are with you for a lifetime
and that's not always true.
So there are different
types of guides so I just
want to give a little bit a list
of different types of guides
that we have.
The first that you have
are personal guides.
So personal guides could
consist of loved ones,
your mother passed over is
a personal guide of yours,
so it could be
family, loved ones.
It could be people that you've
known in other lifetimes
and it can be people who are
very close to you in your soul
group whoever connection
with you and through you
they are learning, they
are growing as well
even though they're
in the spirit form,
they're learning and growing
through your experience
here on the earth,
so that does happen.
Yes, so those are personal
guides mother, father,
relatives, friends as well.
It's very, very interesting
when my mom passed over,
very similar to you, what's so
interesting-- because I also
was wondering who
one of my guides were
and I was told my mother was
one of my guides one of many.
And I said wow now
this was interesting
why would my mother
be a guide of mine
because I would think well
she was a family member
and she passed over and I want
her to be in her own level
over there of expressing
life in the spirit world.
And she came through to me and
she said I am a guide of yours.
I'm helping you from
this side of life
because she didn't feel
that she helped me enough
the physical world because you
thought she wasn't here for me.
And she had an addiction
of some kind alcoholism
and she wasn't there to be with
me so she felt to be with me
more now for the other side of
life as a guide and a teacher.
And she's done a great job.
So we also grow from the
other side of life as well.
We just don't grow here, we also
grow as guides, as teachers.
We spiritually evolve on
the other side as well.
Very, very important
you know that.
So that would be
personal guides.
The next level of guides
would say-- I would say really
are career guides
and career guides are
those specialists, if you will.
Those specialists
will come close to you
and let's say you're
starting to do
something new, a new project.
Let's say you're taking
up oil painting, yes?
And you really want--
you want to really work
with that ability that
you have oil painting
and you really want
to start using that.
Well just by that
thought, just by wanting
to do that project
you will attract
to you those
specialists if you will
who have a specialty in
that gift, oil painting
or whatever you're going to do.
When I started being a medium
or developing as a medium
I would attract to me all of
these scientists, doctors who
worked with my energy
system in order
to help facilitate my
medium mystic abilities,
my sensitivity, if you will.
So they would come in they
would be career guides,
they would help to
move things around,
open me up to
certain ways and they
were with me in the
development of my abilities.
Yes.
Now so all the time you
are doing a project,
being involved in something,
you will draw to those guides
where they're specifically
as you're working guides,
as your career guides.
So always remember that.
So when you finish a
project, their job is done.
So if you're writing
a book let's say also
you'll bring to you those
guides, those teachers who
helped me write
that book helping
inspire you to write that book.
Yeah so it's pretty cool.
And the last guides,
the last one's I'm
going to talk about
are your inspirers,
your helpers, your
spiritual guides,
your spiritual teachers.
Those beams of light
who are on a very
high, high level of awareness
of spiritual evolvement
if you will.
And they are the inspirers,
those are the philosophers,
those are the teachers that
every single person also has.
And many times when I
look at a group like this.
I will see standing behind
somebody a wonderful guy that
looks like-- this particular
time I'm talking about there
was a man who stood
behind this lady
and he was a Greek philosopher.
And I asked him what does
he do for her and he said
I inspire her with
truths that she knows
about but she's forgotten.
She knows about but
she's forgotten.
And this lady ended up
when I was talking to her,
she's a healer she's an
amazing spiritual healer
and she works through books and
she works through- She writes
scripts for movies
and things like that,
and he helps with her.
So we do have those beings
who are very, very evolved
who help to if you will
ignite a part of us,
ignite that flame
inside of us to open
us up to our higher selves, to
our higher sense of beingness.
OK.
So it's very important
you know that.
And they will stay with you
in lifetime or lifetimes.
Not just one
lifetime, they can be
with you many, many lifetimes.
Now before we come back
into the incarnation
into this earth, many times
we as souls will sit around
with our spirit guides,
our teachers and we will
go through our upcoming life.
And we'll go through
different destiny points
and lessons we must learn.
And we'll talk to them and we
will really confer with them
about what's the best
opportunity to learn
this particular lesson.
Yeah.
So whether it's about
unconditional love,
about forgiveness.
Whether it's about just
loving ourselves, treating
each other with the respect.
There are different lessons
that we're going to go through
and our guys will sit
with us and actually
give us like a curriculum of
what we're going to go through.
And it's really amazing it
is really, really amazing.
So I think that
the more aware you
are of your guides
and your teachers,
the more you can use them to
help you every single day.
And the more your communication
you can just say be there
with me, help me through this.
Or you can receive answers,
you could receive impressions,
inspirations from them.
To receive the
proper information
from the highest mind.
Interesting, eh?
AUDIENCE: Yeah.
A couple questions
from the audience?
OK, yes ma'am.
I don't think I've
met my spirit guide
but I think I've heard her--
JAMES: Yes.
A few times in crisis
situations where like once
a dog was attacking
was coming up
to attack with my
dogs and another time
when I, don't tell mom,
had hitchhiked to Santa Fe
and didn't have a ride home
AUDIENCE: Oops.
She came and told me go
back to where you're standing
and then ten minutes
later somebody I knew
came and took me home
to all the way here.
Very much so.
FEMALE AUDIENCE MEMBER: But
I heard her talking to me
and this has happened
several times.
And so do we have crisis guides?
Or will I ever see her?
Fabulous question, a great
experience and your experience
is just like everybody else.
So we do have guides, we have
people that look out for us.
Part of guides, the
higher minded people
is really to look out for us,
to take care of us if you will.
Really hold us in their
arms and make sure
that things don't happen to us.
They protect us.
We call them protective
guides as well
and that could also
be a family relative,
it could be a guy that's
a relative of yours again,
someone who is very close you.
So those are more of the ones
that I see that are protecting,
they're more the personal
guides that protect.
Many, many times you
will hear your guides
through impressions
or a feeling that you
get some kind of feeling.
And if you can
relate, start relating
that feeling that you're getting
when you ask a certain guide
to come in, they
you can associate
that guide with a feeling and
you know when they're with you.
Yes.
So it's a very good question.
In a few moments we're actually
going to connect our guides
and we're going to give you a
way that you too can also have
an association and a
permanent connection with them
that you can use.
Yes.
I know we have one more
question over here Hi.
Hi.
I have met my guide.
One of your guides.
One of my guides.
It was in a stressful situation
Very similar.
And he came to me and
he put his arms around me
and he said everything
will be all right.
And I've seen him in my
dreams as I grow, he grows.
JAMES: Exactly.
Exactly right.
So like I said earlier just
because we're here on the earth
and we have those in
the spirit, it doesn't
mean that they're beyond us.
As we grow they
will grow as well.
You bet as we expand,
they will expand as well.
And it's almost like
we're working in concert,
we're working
together with them.
And again guides
protect us and help us.
They have an investment with
us because we're all connected
whether you're in the physical
body or in spirit form,
we're all one energy.
And for some connection they
take a liking to certain soul
who they maybe have been
through lifetimes with
and they want to perfect
the best that's within you
and they'll do anything they
can to make that happen.
So very, very good.
-Thank you.
You're welcome OK, good.
OK so now we're going to
take a little journey.
Would you like to go on
a little journey with me?
AUDIENCE: Yes.
So this journey is to
connect with your guides
and have a wonderful
experience and it's
an experience I
hope that you can
use for the rest of your lives.
Yes.
So I would just like you to
just close your eyes just
a few moments and
let me guide you
to a wonderful
beautiful light world.
Yes.
So as you sit in this
space whether you're
sitting in a chair or
whether you're lying down,
it doesn't matter.
I just want you to
concentrate on the sound
of my voice Perhaps you'll
hear the music behind it
and I just want you to
be aware of yourself,
of your physical body.
Make sure your feet are
on the floor together,
not crossing your
legs and you want
to give this time to yourself.
We worry so much about the past.
The past has already happened.
Why do we worry
about the future?
The future is yet to be.
So all you have is
this moment now.
So just be mindful of
living in this moment now.
And as you become
aware of the body
just turn your awareness
inside the body.
Be very, very aware of your
beautiful heart beating
just pumping the blood
throughout the body to feed
the body, to nurture the body.
Be mindful of the
inside of the body
as if you're on a
journey, a voyage
on the inside of that body.
The beautiful cells
moving, reproducing.
The light that's
within that body
is a beautiful golden
light of the spirit
within every single body.
Just place your
awareness and your mind
that beautiful light which
is imbued inside your body,
inside the physical
body is your spirit.
The spirit body is
a body of light.
So just place that
awareness in your mind.
Good.
And I'm just going to
ask you now to take
a few deep breaths with me.
And as you inhale, imagine
a beautiful golden light
coming down from
the ethers straight
to the top of your head and
going right through the body
touching every cell, every
muscle, and every organ.
Illuminating them with that
beautiful heavenly light.
And as we exhale
out of the mouth,
we're going to let go of a
grey mist which represents
the old ways of thinking,
our limitations of the mind,
our fears.
Going to let that
go out of our space
and replace it that beautiful
golden light of heaven.
So together let's bring
in with that breath
the inhalation through the nose
that beautiful golden light
and inhale and hold
it two three four
and exhale out of the mouth.
Let it go.
Good.
And inhale.
And then hold it two
three four and exhale.
Let it go.
And just one more time and
inhale hold it two three four
and exhale.
Good.
Let it go.
Now you're opening yourself
up to the core of your being,
to the realization
that you are first
and foremost a spiritual being
having a physical experience.
And now in your mind's
eye in that screen
above your head,
that vision I want
to imagine a beautiful garden.
A beautiful, spiritual garden
with green, green meadows
of grass as far as
the eyes can see
with trees, and flowers
of all different colors
and shapes and sizes.
Daffodils and tulips, roses
anything you want to create
in your spirit garden.
See how beautiful
how rich how luscious
these colors are, this
prana, the energy of life.
And just become aware of this
beautiful, spiritual garden
that you create with your mind.
Take a deep breath
and exhale and as you
see this beautiful
garden, there is
a bench sitting right in
the middle of that garden
a nice marble bench.
Let's go now and sit
on that marble bench
and just feel all the
energy of this garden.
The colors of the
flowers, the life source
flowing through all,
you are connected
to every blade of grass,
every leaf on every tree.
Just feel the oneness
that you're a part of.
And as you feel this
completedness this oneness
with this world around
you, standing behind you
at this bench a being of
light one of your guides
comes close, invite
them into your space.
Invite your guide
close behind you
and perhaps touch
your shoulders.
Become aware of what
they feel like, become
aware of their
love, their energy
that you are able
to identify them.
Invite them to be closer
to you and folding
themselves around so you
truly feel this guide.
And as you let them come in,
talk to them with your mind,
with your thoughts.
Send out a thought saying
give me a message dear guide,
let me hear what you
have to say to me.
Listen with your mind.
At the same time we give
gratitude to this lovely guide,
one of many guides
but this one steps
forward to be with you today.
And thank them.
Gratitude is the right attitude.
So feel their energy thank
them for being with you,
and just acknowledge
with your guide
a sign that they
give you how will
you know when they're with you?
Let them give you a sign.
Perhaps you'll feel to touch on
your shoulder, wind upon you,
whatever sign they want to
give you personally that you
know this guide is with you.
Let them do that now.
And thank them and bless them.
And let them back
up now behind you,
take a step back and
just feel their love.
feel their love,
feel their love.
And take a deep breath and
exhale and bring your awareness
back to your body, your feet
on the floor, your legs,
your backs in the chairs, your
arms, your neck, you head.
And one more breath to
make sure totally back
and inhale and exhale.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
How was That You enjoy that?
Yes?
Yes.
Anybody have a new
experience seeing a new guide
that they never knew
they had before?
Yes, you did?
I'm very curious to
hear who your guide
was this time around.
I'm not sure who it was but it
was definitely a female energy
it was very loving.
I felt enveloped in
this love and I did
get a sign of what to look for.
JAMES: Perfect, perfect.
You know, what is
your first name?
Deb.
Deb, so I'm going to tell
you right now your vibration,
the energy that I get from
you is very much a healer.
So there's a lot of
green around you.
Now the heal that came in
for you was very, very much
I call them a minister
of the healing,
minister of the healing angels.
And I know that as I
communicate with one of you
this guide stands
right here with you,
I feel more of an
angelic feeling
and I would just
want to ask you,
would you know about having
angels around your house
or something about the angel
or work with angelic kingdom
at all with your work?
Well it felt like
an angel actually.
JAMES: It felt like an angel.
It felt like an angel,
JAMES: And do you do work
where you work with the angels,
where you work with a
higher level of energy
because I feel a
lot of this energy
is being brought down to you.
-I may.
I am a healer.
JAMES: You are?
That is my work.
JAMES: Thank you and I'm just
acknowledging that with you.
And I want you to know
that you're a great scholar
in some ways and that one
of your philosopher guides
is a scholar.
Very much around
obviously writing
books and that sort of thing.
And I see the scrolls
of yesteryear.
So I don't know the
parchment scrolls,
it's just very, very interesting
and so I don't know if that
would make sense to you.
But that's what I'm seeing.
It would actually.
JAMES: OK.
Yes.
So it's just
acknowledgement for you
that this would be
a guide of yours.
Because that parchment paper
I really want to tell you
that that's his home for you,
Yes
JAMES: Understand?
Yes I do understand
JAMES: OK.
Good, good.
OK, great.
Thank you very much.
-Yes
OK, good.
Can I just ask is the angel
guide and the parchment guide--
JAMES: The same
-Oh they're the same.
JAMES: I think they're the same.
I feel like they're
the same but I
do feel you have a
whole minister of I
don't want to say
angels around you who
do healing work through you.
They use you as the healing
rays come through to you.
Yes.
JAMES: Now you would have to
notice that your hands become
very hot sometimes because
they come through your hands
right here.
This would be the
heat that pulsate.
Yes.
You understand
-That?
-Yes.
OK, good.
One of my intentions that I've
said for well over a decade
is I am a helper of angels.
Wow, there you go.
Yeah.
Well they heard you and
they're working with you.
Thank you sweetheart.
Thank you
Great, great and over here
we had somebody who-- yes,
who might have
received something yes?
All right I of
course have my mom
but behind her I had two
other people that were there
that I don't really recognize.
JAMES: You didn't
recognize them?
OK.
What was a feeling you received
from those two other people
that were behind you?
Just acknowledge-- it
gets intense whenever
I let my mom in so that was--
We're going to
put it to the side.
I know she's here but we're
going to put it to the side so
let's give her space.
But I want you have the
fullness of this experience
so I want to just to--
what is your name?
Jason
JAMES: Jason.
So Jason I just want you to get
a sense of what does it feel
like to have another
guide come through.
On an emotional level what
did that feel like for you?
MALE AUDIENCE
MEMBER:I don't know.
Very, very grounding
JAMES: Grounding.
Yeah.
JAMES: Love that, love that.
We have to have grounding.
That believe it or not now when
your mom passed over which I'm
going to get to her in a
second because she really
wants to speak but you really
kind of were out of your body
yourself.
You pop out of your
body all the time
I know you do need
grounding and you
need to be part of the earth.
[LAUGHING]
Yes.
JAMES: Understand that?
So that's part of it so
that is part of it so.
I'm a dreamer, I'm
a dreamer a lot.
JAMES: You're a dreamer.
You're not a Pisces, are you?
Yeah.
I could just tell by the
energy that's around you,
the Piscean energy around you.
-Yeah
JAMES: And you're definitely
part of that sensitivity
and the Pisces rules
you know the psychic,
so you are very psychic,
you're very sensitive.
I'm going to tell you
something here as well.
That when your mom passed
away and, I'm would you
mind if I bring her right
through here because I have
to because she's coming in.
And she's stepping in right
here and I'm going to let her
come through further, come on.
But as she adjusts
to the energy here,
I just want to let
you know and I feel
her energy is very
emotional with this lady,
extremely emotional.
But I would say that
you're very sensitive
and you also are a healer
which is very, very
interesting that you're here.
You're very, very psychic,
you're very sensitive
and your soul picked this out.
Your soul picked this
lifetime before you came back
with your mom, with your dad,
with your siblings, picked it
out.
Now you're going to
say how could that be?
I'm going to tell
you something which
a lot of people who are watching
I want you to hear this.
OK.
It's really important.
I'm going to cry.
It's really important that
you know that's sometimes
a loved one has to pass over
the world the spirit in order
to fulfill your destiny.
So you couldn't
fulfill your destiny
without your mom passing over.
Yeah, I couldn't
have made it this far.
OK now mom's
coming through here
and I want to talk about
something as she comes through.
I feel a very loving
woman, extremely loving
although she's telling
me that sometimes she
was self-destructive as well.
-Yes
JAMES: Understand that?
OK.
Are you a sister of hers or are
you a relative of his mother?
I am his grandmother
and I'm her mother.
JAMES: You know this lady?
You're her mother.
Great.
Would you mind standing also?
So you could say yes or no.
You can hold the
microphone, that's fine.
So I know that this lady as
she comes in here to me this
would be your daughter.
I know that she is
apologizing, she's apologizing
and I know there must
have been a time when
she was a young lady
that she left home.
So either around 19 years
of age or 20 years of age
if she just ran away
and didn't want anyone
know where she was,
makes sense to you?
Hold the microphone then.
-Yes.
It makes good sense.
JAMES: It makes sense to you.
Yes.
Because as she
comes into my mind
she's giving me this
sense that when she was
is 19, 20 years old she left the
family, left everything behind.
I didn't want to
be there, she said.
I didn't want to be there.
And she wanted to
explore life, she
wanted to find out about life.
I've got to tell you that.
Your name is Jason again?
-Yes
JAMES: Jason so she comes
in really strong for you
and really, really
strong you're her baby,
you'll always be
your baby, she said.
And she's calling
you her baby and I
know that she used to refer to
you as her baby, is that right?
Yes.
JAMES: Because I know
when she comes in she
refers to you as her baby.
She also said to me
when were a young boy
and around 7, 8 years of
age you used to do artwork,
you used to do drawings
and paints and colors.
Remember that?
-Yes
JAMES: You used to
be all by yourself,
you used to be in a
way lonely but you
really weren't
lonely because inside
you wanted to be by yourself.
-Right
JAMES: Understand that?
Absolutely.
I understand that,
I understand that.
Got you thank you
mom, thank you.
She said she's thanking
you, she's thanking you
and she's thank you for
looking at her with non
judgment, non judgment.
And I wanted I just get
her I get her, get her.
I know that you look at
my photo on the cellphone
Yes.
JAMES: Do you understand that?
Yes, absolutely.
JAMES: You were looking at-- you
have my photo on the cell phone
and that's when I
looked good she said.
[LAUGHING]
She did
[INAUDIBLE] go on.
And I know there's a
couple songs that you
play for your mother as well.
-Yes
JAMES: And I know that you must
have transferred when she had
her cell phone and you
took her information
and put it onto your cellphone.
-Yes.
JAMES: Do you understand that?
Certain songs or
something like that?
Yes.
JAMES: Photos you kept.
And if I could tell you
this she's going on about,
she's with you also in
front of the computer
and if I see the
desktop the image
that you have on your computer
I see something with your mom.
OK?
-OK
JAMES: Does that make
sense to you, please?
Yes
OK, because I keep on
seeing images of your mother
on the computer almost like
a screensaver type thing.
Yeah.
JAMES: You understand that?
We have a couple
pictures of her.
Because she said she pops
up on that computer screen.
And that's how she says it.
-Yeah
She's got I'm going to
tell you something also.
Did she at one point
go away to rehab
or go to you understand that?
She went quite a few times.
JAMES: Yes OK thank you.
And I know that some point in
times it didn't work for her.
I know that.
I feel that this lady, again
I get very emotional with her,
and I need to let you know
that you're being here
today is helping to heal her.
-Nice
JAMES: Do you understand that?
-Yes.
JAMES: That I need
to let you both know
and other family members
who were going to be here,
that your being here today has
helped her because she feels
the love that you came
here out of love for her
and she wants to
thank you for that.
OK?
And I know you wrote letters
to me when I was away.
You wrote letters to me
when she was in rehab.
She said you wrote her letters.
Do you understand that?
Yes.
JAMES: And I know that you
still have some of those letters
that you wrote her.
You actually have
them and I know
they're either in
a drawer or a box
you'd have some of
these letters, correct?
A box.
JAMES: OK.
And I know that as I open up
this letter she shows me very
clearly if I turn that letter
over I could see signature,
love, and I'm seeing
hearts and x and o's.
Yeah.
JAMES: Do you remember that?
Place that for me please.
Great.
It's in an old box in my room.
JAMES: Perfect, perfect and I
know that there comes with so
much love that feeling of that.
Was she married twice?
Were there are two
relationships in her life?
There were two relationships.
JAMES: Significant
relationships?
Did she have children of both
relationships or was it--
FEMALE AUDIENCE
MEMBER: Just Jason
Just you OK, OK
but I don't know
if the other relationship
she had there
was somebody, Step children.
Oh, I'm so sorry she lost one.
JAMES: She lost one.
OK.
-Thank you, Kim.
-Oh
This is her sister.
-Oh the sister.
Oh the sister is here too.
So you understand a lot of this?
SISTER: Oh, yes.
JAMES: OK now I
also want to tell you
and then we're going to
move on, I understand that.
Yes, I understand that.
I've got to tell you she's
with her mother as well.
She's talking about
mother and mother as well.
And I've got to tell you the
mother has a lovely rose garden
and I know that when
you were meditating
you kept seeing roses and
kept on seeing flowers.
You understand about the
roses you kept on seeing?
I did and I thought it
was my grandmother but--
JAMES: There you go.
I did see them.
One more thing, then I'm
going to move on here.
I want you to know
two things OK.
I got your mother
is very pushy here.
[LAUGHING]
She's finds herself.
She's finding herself.
She's finally
finding herself and I
got to tell you that as well.
And I want to thank all
of you for helping me,
she's talking about and this
for her is therapy right here.
You are not your mother.
Don't think you're going
to have a drug problem.
Don't think you're going to have
an alcoholism because she said
that he's worrying about that.
He's worrying about that.
Does that make sense?
-Yes.
JAMES: You're not your mom.
You understand that?
You will not end
up like your mom.
You won't.
You are here today
and because you're
here today you
have an awareness,
do you understand that?
-Yes
JAMES: And that sensitivity you
can work with that sensitivity
and build it up and be the
creative wonderful person
that you are.
You're not your mom and
you've done everything
for your mom you could have.
So don't think you didn't do
anything, You understand that?
Yeah.
JAMES: God bless you.
I'll leave you guys with that.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Now I got to tell you
that as I stand up here
I'm very, very conscious of a
brown dog that's coming to me.
It's a short-haired
dog, it's a darker
brown than a lighter brown
is almost like a copper
brown color.
And I feel like I know there
was rather there was an incision
where there's a procedure
done to this dog
and it was before
he passes over.
Maybe over here or here.
Is it you?
And I want to say before
I come to that my leg
was definitely affected here and
my insides here were affected.
Now I don't know if
there was an incision
that was made that I feel there
might have been at one point.
Having a tumor or
something as well
and I'm not sure where I
am, Does make sense to you?
Makes sense you?
OK sweetheart your name is?
-Grace
OK, Grace do you understand
about the dog that
comes here and did
this dog you understand
about having a procedure done
before the do passed away.
She had like a tumor and
she couldn't walk very well.
JAMES: She couldn't
walk and didn't
you carry this dog sometimes?
-Yes.
JAMES: So you understand
about the carrying
and didn't you wrap a
blanket-- I have a blanket
at one point the dog--
-I think so.
And didn't at one time this
dog I want to lick your face
so I want to lick your face.
And I know this dog was
known for licking your face.
I also know this dog
impresses upon me
that there was a picture, a
photograph of the dog with you.
So I know that the doge
would be like either
kissing you in that photograph.
I would believe so.
I mean there's tons.
JAMES: OK so I know it's
a silver frames so you'll
have to go look at that, OK.
And I know that you kept
the collar or the name tag,
you kept the--
-Somehow
JAMES: OK, I know
it's in a drawer
and I know this dog is thanking
you and very grateful for you.
I know that you had to
sacrifice a lot for the dog
and I know that this
dog wants to thank
you very much for giving
the love that you did.
And didn't you get
another one after him?
Two.
JAMES: You had two more.
The dog that's coming
through after him,
was that dog rescued?
Or something that you
were given this dog?
MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER:
The first dog.
Oh, she was yeah.
JAMES: She was
rescued, wasn't she?
OK
-I think so.
So a lot of love
there from the dog.
So I want to thank you from
the dog and one more thing.
I know that you're
putting a scrapbook
where you have photographs
all together somewhere.
Yeah
JAMES: And there would
be one page or something
and they're all together and
this dog is part of that.
The dog can run
again and it's happy
and it keeps on licking so
I've just got to give you that.
-Awesome.
-OK?
-Thank you.
-All right, sweetheart.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Did your dad pass over?
MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.
Yeah.
He's standing right behind you
and I just want to come to you.
And I know you're here
today to talk to your father
because I know he
just said that to me.
He said my son is here
and wants to speak with me
and I want to speak to you.
And would you mind if
I bring you up on stage
and do a reading here on stage?
MALE AUDIENCE MEMBER: Sure.
[LAUGHING]
Sure, he's a good sport.
Sure.
Great.
What is your name?
-Mike.
Mike want to have a
seat right over here.
OK Mike?
I'm going to take
that away from you.
Do we need this anymore?
No.
We're going to get
a real microphone.
OK, so Mike what I want to do
is I want to have you on stage
but I want you to
use these cards.
I created these cards and
these are the medium ship cards
and what I want you
to do is just hold
on to these cards, Mike.
And what I want you to do
is I want to shuffle them
and I want to put
your energy, I want
you to feel your energy
going into those cards
and imbuing your
energy in those cards.
Feel those cards
with your energy.
But just all around that's
great, great, great, great.
Just keep on.
-Card shuffle, or--?
Card shuffle, that's all right.
And I just want you
keep on holding them
and just play
around them and just
feel the energy from your dad.
You dad is standing
right next to you.
Your dad is right
to your left side.
And as you just work
with those cards,
I want you in your mind to send
a question out to your father.
Send a question at your father.
OK?
And then when you feel
right I want you just
to spread those cards in the
table here, like tarot cards
but they're different.
So I just want you to
think of a question
and spread out the
cards on the table.
All right.
OK, if you're done
spreading them out,
and when you feel as if you have
the right card for the answer
that your father wants to
give you, just pull the card
they really want to go to.
OK now before you look at the
card, pull the one-- that's one
speaks to?
Great.
What is the question that
you had for your dad?
Whether or not he forgives
me for not being there
when he passed away.
OK and what does the card say?
Now I have no pain.
OK.
So I want to let you
know that your father is
right standing there.
Were you separated as far as
geographically separated--
-Yes
-With your dad?
But your father's
a very strong man
and now your dad
is a New Yorker.
(New York Accent)
I've got to tell you
I got a very New York
feeling, right here
is a very, very New York.
OK
[LAUGHING]
He really calls it what
it is and he doesn't
let anyone suffer fools.
I mean he's really in your face.
I gotta tell you that I feel
from a very young age he tries
to get things done in his own
way, creating his own business,
doing his own type of thing.
And I'm early in my and
I feel like your dad
really, really got a
hold of his own life
and really had to work hard
when he was a young boy.
Does that make sense to you?
-Yes.
Do you remember I keep
on getting your dad--
did you ever know Rockaway?
You know Rockaway?
-Yes.
JAMES: Would that makes sense.
I' m getting--
-Yes.
-Rockaway in my head.
What is Rockaway?
Rockaway Beach in Brooklyn.
He grew up in Brooklyn.
He grew up in Brooklyn?
OK, perfect perfect.
So I know there was something
to do with Rockaway, Rockaway
beach of Rockaway
Boulevard, whatever
it is but I know
he had a home there
would be connected with that.
Now I've got to ask you, was
there diabetes then at the end?
Do you know if there was blood
sugar and diabetes problems?
He did have a problem with it.
JAMES: Thank very
much because he
gives me a feeling of being
diabetic or having some issues
there.
I also know that he
couldn't breathe at the end
so your father
gives me a feeling
of not being able to breathe.
And I know you either
have to be on oxygen
and I feel like
pulmonary problems.
Do you understand that?
-Yes
JAMES: Yes, OK.
Now would you remember
your grandmother?
MIKE: Oh, yeah.
Would you remember if she used
to have the roll-up stockings?
-Yes.
-[LAUGHING]
Oh, yes.
[INAUDIBLE]
Because she has roll-up
stockings when she comes in.
MIKE: I remember that.
And she's always using
our hands like this.
-Yes.
-That's how she's using a hands.
She's playing with
her hands like this.
She's like wringing
out her hands
and you would know
her from that.
Yes.
JAMES: You know you
don't do anything
wrong with your grandma You
can do anything with her.
Sit on the stoop.
MIKE: I remember that, too.
JAMES: You remember
sitting on the stoop.
She's using the word stoop.
They had to sit on the stoop.
If you didn't behave
yourself when you were kids,
you got out of the house
and sit on the stoop.
Uh huh.
Yep.
JAMES: Remember that?
OK she's giving me this really,
really strong vibe of that
and your father's with her.
I'm going to tell
you also, I feel
his father around him as well.
And I need to let you know that
your grandfather, his father
was not someone who really
could show his feelings
and show his emotions.
I feel like he's
not as sensitive
as I would have liked.
I've got to tell you
him and your father
I feel they're getting
better, they're
getting better along now--
-Good.
Than they did in a lifetime.
MIKE: That's good.
OK and I've just
got to give you that.
Who was the other Michael
or Mike in the family?
MIKE: My son.
OK because I want to give
love to the other Mike,
Michael and I've got
to tell you that.
And do go to baseball games?
Didn't you used to go to
baseball games all the time?
With my dad, yes.
JAMES: With you dad?
Because I get a very strong
feeling here from him
that we used to throw
the baseball games,
we used to enjoy
the games together.
And I know that your father
taught you how to keep score.
Yes he did.
JAMES: He's telling me he helped
you with how to keep score
and that's really amazing.
MIKE: Wow.
JAMES: You remember that?
You have that memory, don't you?
JAMES: So those memories
Mike are still alive.
It was a long time
ago but I remember.
JAMES: They're still alive and
I know it's a big deal when
they first got a dishwasher.
[LAUGHING]
Yeah, you're right.
It was.
Well back then they
didn't have dishwashers.
JAMES: They didn't
have dishwashers
and it was a big deal.
And now he's showing
me linoleum flooring,
some linoleum flooring.
-Yeah
I'm going to talk--
go on, go on, go on.
All right.
I love your wife so your
wife-- is your wife here?
Yes.
JAMES: Because you knew
his father didn't you?
Because he wants to thank
you for everything and I
understand that yes I
understand that your wife
tends to live in the past.
You can't live in the past,
you can't change the past.
Things have happened and
things can't be the same,
you understand that?
So I know that you
can't make things be
the way they were in the past.
You can't change the past.
I know that you and your
wife have been through a lot.
I know that, I know you have.
I also know there was a
child that passes over.
I'm not sure-- do
you understand this?
Yes.
JAMES: And I know that--
My daughter passed away.
JAMES: Pardon me?
My--
JAMES: Daughter?
Yeah I know that he
brings her with him.
He brings her with him here
and I know-- I understand that
and I'm seeing bows,
bows, bows, bows.
OK and I know that she's
right here with you,
she's right here with you.
When she crosses over by
the way, I'm gone fast.
I'm gone quickly.
So I want you to know
that I'm gone quickly.
I didn't feel a
thing and I want you
to know I did not feel a thing.
I want you to know
she's an angel of yours
and I know you refer to her now
as my little angel or my angel,
is that right?
JAMES: Yeah.
JAMES: And if I
go to your house,
she brings me my mind to your
house she's also a guide,
OK I'm sorry, she's also a
guide of yours, you know that.
Could I just tell you something
about a piano around you?
OK so I want you to pay
attention to this please,
please, please.
When you go and see a piano
and this is really funny,
she has a quirky sense of humor.
When you go to a
certain place, I
don't know whether it's
an airport or wheter it's
a hotel, [INAUDIBLE] piano.
And the keys are
playing by themselves,
You know one of those
automated pianos.
Would you keep your eyes
out for that because she's
laughing about it.
She says I'm going
to bring you there
and you're going
to see that it's
me who is taking you there.
OK?
And don't you still have a chain
of hers, a necklace of hers
as well?
Don't you have a necklace?
Are you wearing her necklace?
You have it with you?
I mean, you have it?
I've got a ring that's hers.
JAMES: You have a ring.
And what about the necklace?
There's a necklace that
belonged to her as well.
I've got a necklace but
it's back in Illinois.
JAMES: That's fine.
You have a necklace
of mine, she said.
You have a necklace of mine.
You understand that?
I've got to tell you she's
in a happy space now.
She's not a bad space.
I've got to tell you that.
And your dad is the one that
brought her through here.
OK.
Where you live right
now, is there a garage
anywhere where you live?
Yes.
JAMES: I keep on seeing
that something in the garage
and you boxes,
boxes, boxes, boxes.
MIKE'S WIFE: Well we're
in the other house.
JAMES: You're in
the other house?
Oh, the house in Illinois is
full of boxes in the garage.
JAMES: She keeps on showing
me these boxes in a garage.
, Boxes, boxes.
And some of her things
are in those boxes.
MIKE'S WIFE: Yes they are.
JAMES: Yes they are.
Some of things are
in those boxes.
Because you have my things the
boxes and OK and I know also
do you have rings of hers?
Not just one but you have
several rings that belonged
to her, do you understand that?
And I know she's
talking about that.
I know she comes to
your ear all the time
and speaks into your ear.
And you think is at her or not?
Is that her or not?
Your dad, he's with her.
He's with her.
Yeah and I've got to tell
you that so take his love
and your daughter's love.
She's always with you.
I just don't want you to--
I don't want your wife
to say that she could have
saved her or helped her
and feel like she didn't do it.
She was on our own path--
MIKE: I know.
And that was the way it was.
And she had to-- her soul had
to go through the journey.
You know that.
MIKE: I know, I know.
JAMES: And you're a great dad.
You're a great dad.
Can I tell you also that
you're teaching your father.
You're teaching your father
another side of life,
how to be a good father.
OK and I've got to tell you
that and a lot of love from him.
All right, Mike?
I'll leave you with that, OK?
God bless you.
God
[APPLAUSE]
-Thank you.
All right, my friend?
Yeah, give me a hug.
We do hugs.
Thank you, sir
OK so this is really
interesting because many times
when I do a message or
reading for somebody
the person at the time does
not fully understand what
the spirit is trying to say.
The references or the names, and
I swear it happens all the time
where later they leave
the studio in driving
home from a meeting,
they go oh my gosh
that's my mother's name.
So it happens all the time.
Now I know you two really,
really, really worked hard
with them or understood the
reference with your grandmother
with those rolled up stockings.
Tell us about that.
She used to have
rolled-up stockings.
JAMES: And that's how
you would know her.
MIKE: Absolutely.
Great, great,
great, great, great,
and I want to know do you
feel your daughters presence,
do you?
MIKE: Yes.
JAMES: OK now I know that--
and what is your wife's name?
Colleen.
JAMES: Colleen.
Colleen, Colleen.
OK Colleen.
So Colleen, darling
what's your birthstone?
What are you?
COLLEEN: I am-- [LAUGHS].
You see, this is what I mean.
She doesn't that remember
when she was born.
Oh my god.
COLLEEN: I remember when
I was born but for some
odd reason I can't--
JAMES: What date?
What's the date?
JAMES: Cancer.
MIKE: You're the crab.
COLLEEN: Thank you, I'm a crab.
Right.
JAMES: When's your birthday?
MIKE: I'm a Pisces.
JAMES: Oh, god, Pisces.
[LAUGHING]
Thank you.
COLLEEN: What is there
something wrong with that?
It's fine.
Cancer, you're such a Cancer.
MIKE: That might be kind of new.
[LAUGHING]
Right, right.
I know things.
I do know things.
COLLEEN: But you
knew I was Cancer?
No I just know the
certain elements
of an energy around you.
COLLEEN: Uh huh.
JAMES: I just know that
something with you, Colleen.
I just want to tell
you that your family
is very close to you.
That the family-- I want
my family to be close
it means a lot to me, my family.
And I'm going to
tell you something,
things don't always work out
the way you want them to.
OK?
COLLEEN: This is true
JAMES: So I know with you
that you're a control freak
and I know--
COLLEEN: This is true.
that you want things--
there's a certain way with you
and when they can't be
controlled it's like ugh!
But guess what, Colleen?
You don't have control.
Really?
JAMES: Nobody has control.
This is true.
JAMES: Nobody has
control about what
are people say, what
other people do,
when somebody's soul
leaves this earth
and goes through to
the other side of life.
We don't have
control about that.
What we do have
control about is how we
react to other people's words.
I often say how people
treat you is there karma,
how you react is your karma.
Really important to know that.
So I want to know
with your daughter
and with your family and your
father and all these people
that you know what, you
have to let them be.
And we learn lessons
from them, you know?
You might learn a
lesson from them.
And.
Please remember
that your daughter
is a guide of yours as well.
A personal guide of yours.
And I want you to know
that you're not alone.
No one is ever alone.
No one ever alone.
So thank you very much.
Could you ask her
a question for me?
JAMES: No, I'm done.
[LAUGHING]
So I just want you to--
COLLEEN: OK.
No control there.
No control.
I control how I'm
going to respond.
So you can ask her
though on your own.
You can ask and send out
a thought and receive it.
You shouldn't doubt yourself.
COLLEEN: Well that was
kind of the question.
So when I sense her I think of
a cigarette smoke, like a smell.
JAMES: Did she used
to smoke cigarettes?
Yes.
So that's the number
one way, that's
your connection
with your daughter
who is a guide of yours.
So for all of you who want
to contact your guides,
we talked about guides
and being with the guides.
A signal that you
get is something
where there's a physical symbol,
a smell, a thing, an object.
Now for you two over here your
daughter is one of your guides,
very much so and she comes
in with cigarette smell
or a sense of the cigarettes.
That's how you
know she's around.
Anytime you want to talk
to your guides folks just
send out a thought and listen.
Listen with the mind.
Let the mind be still
and ask your guide
to come through to you and be
open to them and how they feel.
And how you feel when you
connect with your guide.
OK so I want to thank you
all very much for being here.
And I want to thank everyone
at home that watched the show.
And may the love and
lighten of the spirit world
be around you always.
Thank you very much.
We'll see you next time.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]